# Classification Practice
### Introduction
Classifiers are a fundamental component of machine learning, and they are widely used in a variety of applications such as image and speech recognition, natural language processing, and predictive modeling. The primary objective of a classifier is to assign a class label or category to a given input based on its features and characteristics.

### Here the following steps for the procedure of Classification practice.

1. First we have created setup the environment using PYCharm as IDE for the given template by professor.

2. After that I install the dependencies for running the project. Download the above scripts (numpy, matplotlib, opencv-python, etc.)

```
> pip install numpy
> pip install matplotlib
> pip install opencv-python
> pip install pandas 
> pip install scikit-learn

```
3. After installing the dependencies. We create a file named as "classification.py" in main folder.

4. Then import the files "Images.csv" and "EdgeHistogram.csv" in the main directory. 

5. Now after setting up the whole environment and writing the algorithm for the classification.

6. Now I run my code in the google colab inorder to generate the confusion matrix csv file and hyperparameter csv file using the following three algorithm.
7. We use **RandomForestClassifier, DecisionTreeClassifier, KNNClassifier** for this problem.
8. After running all the scripts from there. We have 2 different files as a output result.

### Output

We have 6 different files that are generated by running all the three algorithms.


----------------------
## Authors
Anees ur Rehman (Matriculation: 5002725)

